QtCookiesSyn


C++ library based on QT5


Purpose

This library is about to solve the following problems:

1.The javascript class `XMLHttpRequest` in QML can't accept any cookies(QML doesn't support DOM, object `document.cookie` doesn't exist).

2.Cookies should be stored in local.

3.In the hyber apps, in order to keep log states, the session cookies, which contains the authorization info, should be unified between QML and H5.

4.From Qt5.6, webEngine(chromium) was import to substitute webkit module, which uses `profile` class to process cookies. To synchronize cookies between QML and webEngine is urgent issue.


Approach & Principle

For QML, replace the default `networkAccessManagerFactory` of QML Engine. This factoy class can generate a `networkAccessManager` which contains a singleton cookieJar(cookie manager). The singleton cookieJar can handle and store all cookies process by the networkAccessManagers. (For any QML component, whenever HTTP access needed, it turns to QMLEngine. QMLEngine will use the networkAccessManagerFactory to generate a networkAccessManager for service.) Then, after got reply, cookies will be sent to the cookieJar automatically.

(obsolete)For WebEngine, it use WebEngineCookieStore to store cookies. CookieJar can automatically synchronize cookies with WebEngineCookieStore. But not functional for android, because WebEngine module is not supported in android(currently Qt5.8.0).

For html, using QWebChannel to transport message between HTML and C++. On C++ side, expose the singleton `NetworkCookieJar` Instance to JavaScript. On html side, using proper event handler such as window.onload() to save cookies to C++, using the handler for signal `synHtmlCookie` of javascript instance `NetworkCookieJar` to set cookies from C++.


Roles

1.Class `QMLNetworkAccessManagerFactory`, inherit from `QQmlNetworkAccessManagerFactory`, is used to substitute the default networkAccessManagerFactory of QMLEngine. Each networkAccessManager generated by this factory contains a cookieJar which is singleton.

2.Class `NetworkCookieJar`, inherit from `QNetworkCookieJar`, is used to handle with cookies. Singleton, fufill cookies's save, load, insert, delete, update functions. 
Expose to html. 
SLOT for HTML: Q_INVOKABLE bool setHtmlCookiesFromUrl(const QString& rawString, const QUrl &url). 
SIGNAL for HTML: void synHtmlCookie( const QString& cookieStr ).


ToDo


How To Use?

1. include QtCookieSyn. 
2. create QQmlEngine
3. using MARCRO: START_COOKIE_SYN(x,y)
	x is instance of QQmlEngine
	y is WebSocket port, used by html page.

example:

#include <QtCookieSyn>
int main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
    QGuiApplication app(argc, argv);
    QtWebView::initialize();
    QQmlApplicationEngine engine;
    START_COOKIE_SYN(engine,12345)
    engine.load(QUrl(QStringLiteral("qrc:/qml/xmlhttprequest.qml")));
    return app.exec();
}
